The proposal of using the palimpsest emerges from the idea of: “librillo de memoria (memory little book)”*, - Cardenio’s. Which serves as a first poem and letter support that will be recopied later -, it is made of a kind of wax that permits to be embossed by a metal sharp, in order to be able to erase and overwrite; associating this way, text, memory and forgetfulness, “As if all kind of writing made an effort to conjure its own fragility”1, which allows allegorical drawing; concepts such as: memory, remnant, time…, which are constantly cited in the justification of such a technology as the one of the book.

Here, the palimpsest turns into an mirror image that reflects and prepares itself to be filled with any present and eliminates the previous one to be able to persist  by its presence by an electronic device “that has the quality of the mental images, pure spectrum.  They appear in places where disappear at once […] they have a lack of all kind actuality, because of the lack of the lowest returning will. They are from the order of what does not return, of what we say; it does not tour the world for staying”2

This is how a dichotomy between the palimpsest image and the exclusive use that is given to stories and the tales by the book format is suggested, which in this placement, is proposed as the mediator that permits our inscription on space through its capturing device, and by its escape, is leaving us a question about those classification ways that give certain value to a few stories or tales.

The relationship established between art and technology is directly experimental and reflexive; it is in this encounter where other ways and changes in the functionality and the interaction among man, multiple technological devices and the innovations on hardware and software are raised.  Art asks questions and reflects.  Technology emerges as a result from multiple processes of research and scientific elaboration, that in this case, is also proposed as a mediator of the artistic processes, giving to its praxis the possibility of amplifying its experimentation field, disregarding whatever its conceptual proposal could be, since the elaboration alternatives are ever wider.

------------------------------ 
* Miguel de Cervantes, Don Quijote, (capítulo II)
1. CHARTIER, Roger. Inscribir y Borrar: Cultura escrita y literatura. Buenos Aires: Kats. 2006. Pag. 16 
2. BREA, José Luis. Las tres eras de la imagen, Imagen-Materia, Film, E-image. Madrid: Akal. 2010. Pag. 67
